.TH SLOC 1 "April 2026" "sloc" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sloc \- count source lines of code, comments, and tests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sloc
[\fB-a\fR ext1,ext2]
[\fB-e\fR ext1,ext2]
[\fB-o\fR ext1,ext2]
[\fB-d\fR]
[\fB-s\fR]
[\fB-n\fR]
[\fB-c\fR]
[\fB-b\fR]
[\fB-p\fR]
[\fB-l\fR]
[\fB-r\fR]
[\fB--line-authors\fR]
[\fB--churn\fR]
[\fB-V\fR]
[\fB-h\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsloc\fR is a fast, standalone source-lines-of-code counter that separates
code, comment, and test lines by default. Blank lines are optional, and
symbol-only lines are excluded unless enabled.
.PP
When run inside a Git repository, \fBsloc\fR uses tracked and untracked
non-ignored files from \fBgit ls-files\fR. Outside Git, it falls back to a
recursive directory walk.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -a ", " --add " ext1,ext2"
Include additional file extensions.
.TP
.BR -e ", " --exclude " ext1,ext2"
Exclude specific file extensions.
.TP
.BR -o ", " --only " ext1,ext2"
Only include the listed file extensions. This overrides \fB--add\fR and
\fB--exclude\fR.
.TP
.BR -d ", " --descending
Display results in descending order by total counted lines.
.TP
.BR -s ", " --summary
Print only totals by file type.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --no-split-tests
Merge test lines into the main code or lines column.
.TP
.BR -c ", " --no-comments
Exclude comment lines from counts and output.
.TP
.BR -b ", " --blanks
Show blank-line counts.
.TP
.BR -p ", " --count-symbols
Count symbol-only lines as code or test.
.TP
.BR --split-tests
Show separate code and test columns. This is the default.
.TP
.BR --comments
Show comment-line counts. This is the default.
.TP
.BR --no-blanks
Exclude blank lines from counts and output. This is the default.
.TP
.BR --no-count-symbols
Exclude symbol-only lines from counts. This is the default.
.TP
.BR -l ", " --line-authors
Use \fBgit blame --line-porcelain\fR to color the file-type summary bars by
current line author. The \fBAUTHORS\fR column lists the largest line authors for
each file type. The report uses the same code, test, comment, blank, and
symbol-only settings as the main count.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --churn
Add whole-history \fBgit log --all --no-merges --numstat --no-renames
--format=\fR columns to the file-type summary. Churn is displayed as deleted
lines divided by added lines. File types with historical churn but no current
matching files are still shown.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
Print the program version.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show usage information.
.SH TEST DETECTION
Files are treated as tests when their paths match common test directories such
as \fBtests/\fR, \fBspec/\fR, \fB__tests__/\fR, \fBe2e/\fR, or when filenames
match patterns such as \fB*_test.*\fR, \fB*.spec.*\fR, \fBconftest.py\fR, and
common JVM test suffixes. Rust \fB#[cfg(test)] mod ...\fR blocks are counted as
test lines even inside non-test files.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command-line arguments.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1)
